README.md, before:

# ZSON

## About

ZSON is a PostgreSQL extension for transparent JSONB compression. Compression is based on a shared dictionary of strings most frequently used in specific JSONB documents (not only keys, but also values, array elements, etc). ZSON allows to safe ~ 50% of disk space and gain more TPS because of lower I/O. Memory is saved as well.

ZSON was originally created in 2016 by [Postgres Professional](https://postgrespro.ru/) team: researched and coded by [Aleksander Alekseev](http://eax.me/); ideas, code review, testing, etc by [Alexander Korotkov](http://akorotkov.github.io/) and [Teodor Sigaev](http://www.sigaev.ru/).

## Install

Build and install ZSON:

```
cd /path/to/zson/source/code
make
sudo make install
```

Run tests:

```
make installcheck
```

Connect to PostgreSQL:

```
psql my_database
```

Enable extension:

```
create extension zson;
```

## Uninstall

Disable extension:

```
drop extension zson;
```

Uninstall ZSON:

```
cd /path/to/zson/source/code
sudo make uninstall
```

## Usage

First ZSON should be *trained* on common data using zson_learn procedure:

```
zson_learn(
    tables_and_columns text[][],
    max_examples int default 10000,
    min_length int default 2,
    max_length int default 128,
    min_count int default 2
)
```

Example:

```
select zson_learn('{{"table1", "row1"}, {"table2", "row2"}}');
```

You can create a temporary table and write some common JSONB documents to it manually or use existing tables. The idea is to provide a subset of real data. Lets say some document *type* is twice as frequent as some other document type. ZSON expects that there will be twice more documents of the first type than of the second in a learning set.

Resulting dictionary could be examined using this query:

```
select * from zson_dict;
```

Now ZSON type could be used as a complete and transparent replacement of JSONB type:

```
zson_test=# create table zson_example(x zson);
CREATE TABLE

zson_test=# insert into zson_example values ('{"aaa": 123}');
INSERT 0 1

zson_test=# select x -> 'aaa' from zson_example;
-[ RECORD 1 ]-
?column? | 123
```

## Migrating to new dictionary

When schema of JSONB documents evolve ZSON could be *re-learned*:

```
select zson_learn('{{"table1", "row1"}, {"table2", "row2"}}');
```

This time *second* dictionary will be created. Dictionaries are cached in memory so it will take about a minute before ZSON realizes that there is a new dictionary. After that old documents will be decompressed using old dictionary and new documents will be compressed and decompressed using new dictionary.

To find out which dictionary is used for given ZSON document use zson_info procedure:

```
zson_test=# select zson_info(x) from test_compress where id = 1;
-[ RECORD 1 ]---------------------------------------------------
zson_info | zson version = 0, dict version = 1, ...

zson_test=# select zson_info(x) from test_compress where id = 2;
-[ RECORD 1 ]---------------------------------------------------
zson_info | zson version = 0, dict version = 0, ...
```

If **all** ZSON documents are migrated to new dictionary the old one could be safely removed:

```
delete from zson_dict where dict_id = 0;
```

In general it's safer to keep old dictionaries just in case. A few KB of disk space don't worth the risk of losing data.

## Benchmark

**Disclaimer**: Synthetic benchmarks could not be trusted. Re-check everything on specific hardware, configuration, data and workload!

We used the following server:

* 12 cores (24 with HT)
* 24 Gb of RAM
* HDD
* swap is off

To simulate scenario when database doesn't fit into memory we used `stress`:

```
sudo stress --vm-bytes 21500m --vm-keep -m 1 --vm-hang 0
```

OOM Killer configuration:

```
# allow up to (100 - 3)% of all memory to be used

echo 100 > /proc/sys/vm/overcommit_ratio
echo 2 > /proc/sys/vm/overcommit_memory # OVERCOMMIT_NEVER
```

Database configuration:

```
max_prepared_transactions = 100
shared_buffers = 1GB
wal_level = hot_standby
wal_keep_segments = 128
max_connections = 600
listen_addresses = '*'
autovacuum = off
```

Data:

```
\timing on

create extension zson;

create table jsonb_example(x jsonb);

create table test_nocompress(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, x jsonb);
create table test_compress(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, x zson);

-- "common" JSON document - example of Consul REST API response
insert into jsonb_example values ('
	{
	  "Member": {
	    "DelegateCur": 4,
	    "DelegateMax": 4,
	    "DelegateMin": 2,
	    "Name": "postgresql-master",
	    "Addr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "Port": 8301,
	    "Tags": {
	      "vsn_min": "1",
	      "vsn_max": "3",
	      "vsn": "2",
	      "role": "consul",
	      "port": "8300",
	      "expect": "3",
	      "dc": "dc1",
	      "build": "0.6.1:68969ce5"
	    },
	    "Status": 1,
	    "ProtocolMin": 1,
	    "ProtocolMax": 3,
	    "ProtocolCur": 2
	  },
	  "Coord": {
	    "Height": 1.1121755379893715e-05,
	    "Adjustment": -2.023610556800026e-05,
	    "Error": 0.19443548095527025,
	    "Vec": [
	      -0.004713143383327869,
	      -0.0032494905923075553,
	      0.0007104109540813835,
	      0.00472788328972092,
	      -0.0015931587524407006,
	      0.0014436856764788407,
	      0.005688487740053884,
	      -0.0039037697928507834
	    ]
	  },
	  "Config": {
	    "Reap": null,
	    "SessionTTLMinRaw": "",
	    "SessionTTLMin": 0,
	    "UnixSockets": {
	      "Perms": "",
	      "Grp": "",
	      "Usr": ""
	    },
	    "VersionPrerelease": "",
	    "Version": "0.6.1",
	    "Revision": "68969ce5f4499cbe3a4f946917be2e580f1b1936+CHANGES",
	    "CAFile": "",
	    "VerifyServerHostname": false,
	    "VerifyOutgoing": false,
	    "VerifyIncoming": false,
	    "EnableDebug": false,
	    "Protocol": 2,
	    "DogStatsdTags": null,
	    "DogStatsdAddr": "",
	    "StatsdAddr": "",
	    "StatsitePrefix": "consul",
	    "StatsiteAddr": "",
	    "SkipLeaveOnInt": false,
	    "LeaveOnTerm": false,
	    "Addresses": {
	      "RPC": "",
	      "HTTPS": "",
	      "HTTP": "",
	      "DNS": ""
	    },
	    "Ports": {
	      "Server": 8300,
	      "SerfWan": 8302,
	      "SerfLan": 8301,
	      "RPC": 8400,
	      "HTTPS": -1,
	      "HTTP": 8500,
	      "DNS": 8600
	    },
	    "AdvertiseAddrWan": "10.0.3.245",
	    "DNSRecursors": [],
	    "DNSRecursor": "",
	    "DataDir": "/var/lib/consul",
	    "Datacenter": "dc1",
	    "Server": true,
	    "BootstrapExpect": 3,
	    "Bootstrap": false,
	    "DevMode": false,
	    "DNSConfig": {
	      "OnlyPassing": false,
	      "MaxStale": 5e+09,
	      "EnableTruncate": false,
	      "AllowStale": false,
	      "ServiceTTL": null,
	      "NodeTTL": 0
	    },
	    "Domain": "consul.",
	    "LogLevel": "INFO",
	    "NodeName": "postgresql-master",
	    "ClientAddr": "0.0.0.0",
	    "BindAddr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "AdvertiseAddr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "AdvertiseAddrs": {
	      "RPCRaw": "",
	      "RPC": null,
	      "SerfWanRaw": "",
	      "SerfWan": null,
	      "SerfLanRaw": "",
	      "SerfLan": null
	    },
	    "CertFile": "",
	    "KeyFile": "",
	    "ServerName": "",
	    "StartJoin": [],
	    "StartJoinWan": [],
	    "RetryJoin": [],
	    "RetryMaxAttempts": 0,
	    "RetryIntervalRaw": "",
	    "RetryJoinWan": [],
	    "RetryMaxAttemptsWan": 0,
	    "RetryIntervalWanRaw": "",
	    "EnableUi": false,
	    "UiDir": "/usr/share/consul/web-ui",
	    "PidFile": "",
	    "EnableSyslog": false,
	    "SyslogFacility": "LOCAL0",
	    "RejoinAfterLeave": false,
	    "CheckUpdateInterval": 3e+11,
	    "ACLDatacenter": "",
	    "ACLTTL": 3e+10,
	    "ACLTTLRaw": "",
	    "ACLDefaultPolicy": "allow",
	    "ACLDownPolicy": "extend-cache",
	    "Watches": null,
	    "DisableRemoteExec": false,
	    "DisableUpdateCheck": false,
	    "DisableAnonymousSignature": false,
	    "HTTPAPIResponseHeaders": null,
	    "AtlasInfrastructure": "",
	    "AtlasJoin": false,
	    "AtlasEndpoint": "",
	    "DisableCoordinates": false
	  }
	}
	');

-- step 1

insert into test_nocompress select * from generate_series(1, 10000),
	jsonb_example;

select zson_learn('{{"test_nocompress", "x"}}');

insert into test_compress select * from generate_series(1, 10000),
	jsonb_example;


select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- step 2

insert into test_nocompress
	select * from generate_series(10001, 1000000), jsonb_example;

insert into test_compress
	select * from generate_series(10001, 1000000), jsonb_example;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- step 3

insert into test_nocompress
	select * from generate_series(1000001, 3000000), jsonb_example;

insert into test_compress
	select * from generate_series(1000001, 3000000), jsonb_example;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- VACUUM prevents PostgreSQL from *writing* data to disk during benchmark
-- when only SELECT queries are executed
-- For more details see https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Hint_Bits

vacuum full verbose;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

```

File nocompress.pgbench:

```
\set maxid 3000000
\setrandom from_id 1 :maxid
select x -> 'time' from test_nocompress where id=:from_id;
```

File compress.pgbench:

```
\set maxid 3000000
\setrandom from_id 1 :maxid
select x -> 'time' from test_compress where id=:from_id;
```

On PostgreSQL server:

```
# restart is required to clean shared buffers

sudo service postgresql restart
```

On second server (same hardware, same rack):

```
pgbench -h 10.110.0.10 -f nocompress.pgbench -T 600 -P 1 -c 40 -j 12 zson_test
```

On PostgreSQL server:

```
sudo service postgresql restart
```

On second server:

```
pgbench -h 10.110.0.10 -f compress.pgbench -T 600 -P 1 -c 40 -j 12 zson_test
```

Benchmark results:

```
transaction type: nocompress.pgbench
scaling factor: 1
query mode: simple
number of clients: 40
number of threads: 12
duration: 600 s
number of transactions actually processed: 583183
latency average = 41.153 ms
latency stddev = 75.002 ms
tps = 971.802963 (including connections establishing)
tps = 971.810536 (excluding connections establishing)


transaction type: compress.pgbench
scaling factor: 1
query mode: simple
number of clients: 40
number of threads: 12
duration: 600 s
number of transactions actually processed: 651910
latency average = 36.814 ms
latency stddev = 52.750 ms
tps = 1086.386943 (including connections establishing)
tps = 1086.396431 (excluding connections establishing)
```

In this case ZSON gives about 11.8% more TPS.

We can modify compress.pgbench and nocompress.pgbench so only documents with id in between of 1 and 3000 will be requested. It will simulate a case when all data *does* fit into memory. In this case we see 141K TPS (JSONB) vs 134K TPS (ZSON) which is 5% slower.

Compression ratio could be different depending on documents, database schema, number of rows, etc. But in general ZSON compression is much better than build-in PostgreSQL compression (PGLZ):

```
   before   |   after    |      ratio       
------------+------------+------------------
 3961880576 | 1638834176 | 0.41365057440843
(1 row)

   before   |   after    |       ratio       
------------+------------+-------------------
 8058904576 | 4916436992 | 0.610062688500061
(1 row)

   before    |   after    |       ratio       
-------------+------------+-------------------
 14204420096 | 9832841216 | 0.692238130775149
```

Not only disk space is saved. Data loaded to shared buffers is not decompressed. It means that memory is also saved and more data could be accessed without loading it from the disk.

Commit message:

"When it's a time to re-learn?" section added (thanks to https://www.reddit.com/user/mage2k)

README.md, after:

# ZSON

## About

ZSON is a PostgreSQL extension for transparent JSONB compression. Compression is based on a shared dictionary of strings most frequently used in specific JSONB documents (not only keys, but also values, array elements, etc). ZSON allows to safe ~ 50% of disk space and gain more TPS because of lower I/O. Memory is saved as well.

ZSON was originally created in 2016 by [Postgres Professional](https://postgrespro.ru/) team: researched and coded by [Aleksander Alekseev](http://eax.me/); ideas, code review, testing, etc by [Alexander Korotkov](http://akorotkov.github.io/) and [Teodor Sigaev](http://www.sigaev.ru/).

See also [discussion on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/PostgreSQL/comments/55mr4r/zson_postgresql_extension_for_transparent_jsonb/).

## Install

Build and install ZSON:

```
cd /path/to/zson/source/code
make
sudo make install
```

Run tests:

```
make installcheck
```

Connect to PostgreSQL:

```
psql my_database
```

Enable extension:

```
create extension zson;
```

## Uninstall

Disable extension:

```
drop extension zson;
```

Uninstall ZSON:

```
cd /path/to/zson/source/code
sudo make uninstall
```

## Usage

First ZSON should be *trained* on common data using zson_learn procedure:

```
zson_learn(
    tables_and_columns text[][],
    max_examples int default 10000,
    min_length int default 2,
    max_length int default 128,
    min_count int default 2
)
```

Example:

```
select zson_learn('{{"table1", "row1"}, {"table2", "row2"}}');
```

You can create a temporary table and write some common JSONB documents to it manually or use existing tables. The idea is to provide a subset of real data. Lets say some document *type* is twice as frequent as some other document type. ZSON expects that there will be twice more documents of the first type than of the second in a learning set.

Resulting dictionary could be examined using this query:

```
select * from zson_dict;
```

Now ZSON type could be used as a complete and transparent replacement of JSONB type:

```
zson_test=# create table zson_example(x zson);
CREATE TABLE

zson_test=# insert into zson_example values ('{"aaa": 123}');
INSERT 0 1

zson_test=# select x -> 'aaa' from zson_example;
-[ RECORD 1 ]-
?column? | 123
```

## Migrating to new dictionary

When schema of JSONB documents evolve ZSON could be *re-learned*:

```
select zson_learn('{{"table1", "row1"}, {"table2", "row2"}}');
```

This time *second* dictionary will be created. Dictionaries are cached in memory so it will take about a minute before ZSON realizes that there is a new dictionary. After that old documents will be decompressed using old dictionary and new documents will be compressed and decompressed using new dictionary.

To find out which dictionary is used for given ZSON document use zson_info procedure:

```
zson_test=# select zson_info(x) from test_compress where id = 1;
-[ RECORD 1 ]---------------------------------------------------
zson_info | zson version = 0, dict version = 1, ...

zson_test=# select zson_info(x) from test_compress where id = 2;
-[ RECORD 1 ]---------------------------------------------------
zson_info | zson version = 0, dict version = 0, ...
```

If **all** ZSON documents are migrated to new dictionary the old one could be safely removed:

```
delete from zson_dict where dict_id = 0;
```

In general it's safer to keep old dictionaries just in case. A few KB of disk space don't worth the risk of losing data.

## When it's a time to re-learn?

Unfortunately, it's hard to recommend a general approach.

A good heuristic could be:

```
select pg_table_size('tt') / (select count(*) from tt)
```

... i.e. average document size. When it suddenly starts to grow it's time to re-learn.

However, developers usually know when they change a schema significantly. It's also easy to re-check whether current schema differs a lot from the original using zson_dict table.

## Benchmark

**Disclaimer**: Synthetic benchmarks could not be trusted. Re-check everything on specific hardware, configuration, data and workload!

We used the following server:

* 12 cores (24 with HT)
* 24 Gb of RAM
* HDD
* swap is off

To simulate scenario when database doesn't fit into memory we used `stress`:

```
sudo stress --vm-bytes 21500m --vm-keep -m 1 --vm-hang 0
```

OOM Killer configuration:

```
# allow up to (100 - 3)% of all memory to be used

echo 100 > /proc/sys/vm/overcommit_ratio
echo 2 > /proc/sys/vm/overcommit_memory # OVERCOMMIT_NEVER
```

Database configuration:

```
max_prepared_transactions = 100
shared_buffers = 1GB
wal_level = hot_standby
wal_keep_segments = 128
max_connections = 600
listen_addresses = '*'
autovacuum = off
```

Data:

```
\timing on

create extension zson;

create table jsonb_example(x jsonb);

create table test_nocompress(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, x jsonb);
create table test_compress(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, x zson);

-- "common" JSON document - example of Consul REST API response
insert into jsonb_example values ('
	{
	  "Member": {
	    "DelegateCur": 4,
	    "DelegateMax": 4,
	    "DelegateMin": 2,
	    "Name": "postgresql-master",
	    "Addr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "Port": 8301,
	    "Tags": {
	      "vsn_min": "1",
	      "vsn_max": "3",
	      "vsn": "2",
	      "role": "consul",
	      "port": "8300",
	      "expect": "3",
	      "dc": "dc1",
	      "build": "0.6.1:68969ce5"
	    },
	    "Status": 1,
	    "ProtocolMin": 1,
	    "ProtocolMax": 3,
	    "ProtocolCur": 2
	  },
	  "Coord": {
	    "Height": 1.1121755379893715e-05,
	    "Adjustment": -2.023610556800026e-05,
	    "Error": 0.19443548095527025,
	    "Vec": [
	      -0.004713143383327869,
	      -0.0032494905923075553,
	      0.0007104109540813835,
	      0.00472788328972092,
	      -0.0015931587524407006,
	      0.0014436856764788407,
	      0.005688487740053884,
	      -0.0039037697928507834
	    ]
	  },
	  "Config": {
	    "Reap": null,
	    "SessionTTLMinRaw": "",
	    "SessionTTLMin": 0,
	    "UnixSockets": {
	      "Perms": "",
	      "Grp": "",
	      "Usr": ""
	    },
	    "VersionPrerelease": "",
	    "Version": "0.6.1",
	    "Revision": "68969ce5f4499cbe3a4f946917be2e580f1b1936+CHANGES",
	    "CAFile": "",
	    "VerifyServerHostname": false,
	    "VerifyOutgoing": false,
	    "VerifyIncoming": false,
	    "EnableDebug": false,
	    "Protocol": 2,
	    "DogStatsdTags": null,
	    "DogStatsdAddr": "",
	    "StatsdAddr": "",
	    "StatsitePrefix": "consul",
	    "StatsiteAddr": "",
	    "SkipLeaveOnInt": false,
	    "LeaveOnTerm": false,
	    "Addresses": {
	      "RPC": "",
	      "HTTPS": "",
	      "HTTP": "",
	      "DNS": ""
	    },
	    "Ports": {
	      "Server": 8300,
	      "SerfWan": 8302,
	      "SerfLan": 8301,
	      "RPC": 8400,
	      "HTTPS": -1,
	      "HTTP": 8500,
	      "DNS": 8600
	    },
	    "AdvertiseAddrWan": "10.0.3.245",
	    "DNSRecursors": [],
	    "DNSRecursor": "",
	    "DataDir": "/var/lib/consul",
	    "Datacenter": "dc1",
	    "Server": true,
	    "BootstrapExpect": 3,
	    "Bootstrap": false,
	    "DevMode": false,
	    "DNSConfig": {
	      "OnlyPassing": false,
	      "MaxStale": 5e+09,
	      "EnableTruncate": false,
	      "AllowStale": false,
	      "ServiceTTL": null,
	      "NodeTTL": 0
	    },
	    "Domain": "consul.",
	    "LogLevel": "INFO",
	    "NodeName": "postgresql-master",
	    "ClientAddr": "0.0.0.0",
	    "BindAddr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "AdvertiseAddr": "10.0.3.245",
	    "AdvertiseAddrs": {
	      "RPCRaw": "",
	      "RPC": null,
	      "SerfWanRaw": "",
	      "SerfWan": null,
	      "SerfLanRaw": "",
	      "SerfLan": null
	    },
	    "CertFile": "",
	    "KeyFile": "",
	    "ServerName": "",
	    "StartJoin": [],
	    "StartJoinWan": [],
	    "RetryJoin": [],
	    "RetryMaxAttempts": 0,
	    "RetryIntervalRaw": "",
	    "RetryJoinWan": [],
	    "RetryMaxAttemptsWan": 0,
	    "RetryIntervalWanRaw": "",
	    "EnableUi": false,
	    "UiDir": "/usr/share/consul/web-ui",
	    "PidFile": "",
	    "EnableSyslog": false,
	    "SyslogFacility": "LOCAL0",
	    "RejoinAfterLeave": false,
	    "CheckUpdateInterval": 3e+11,
	    "ACLDatacenter": "",
	    "ACLTTL": 3e+10,
	    "ACLTTLRaw": "",
	    "ACLDefaultPolicy": "allow",
	    "ACLDownPolicy": "extend-cache",
	    "Watches": null,
	    "DisableRemoteExec": false,
	    "DisableUpdateCheck": false,
	    "DisableAnonymousSignature": false,
	    "HTTPAPIResponseHeaders": null,
	    "AtlasInfrastructure": "",
	    "AtlasJoin": false,
	    "AtlasEndpoint": "",
	    "DisableCoordinates": false
	  }
	}
	');

-- step 1

insert into test_nocompress select * from generate_series(1, 10000),
	jsonb_example;

select zson_learn('{{"test_nocompress", "x"}}');

insert into test_compress select * from generate_series(1, 10000),
	jsonb_example;


select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- step 2

insert into test_nocompress
	select * from generate_series(10001, 1000000), jsonb_example;

insert into test_compress
	select * from generate_series(10001, 1000000), jsonb_example;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- step 3

insert into test_nocompress
	select * from generate_series(1000001, 3000000), jsonb_example;

insert into test_compress
	select * from generate_series(1000001, 3000000), jsonb_example;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

-- VACUUM prevents PostgreSQL from *writing* data to disk during benchmark
-- when only SELECT queries are executed
-- For more details see https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Hint_Bits

vacuum full verbose;

select before, after, after :: float / before as ratio
	from (select pg_table_size('test_nocompress') as before,
	pg_table_size('test_compress') as after) as temp;

```

File nocompress.pgbench:

```
\set maxid 3000000
\setrandom from_id 1 :maxid
select x -> 'time' from test_nocompress where id=:from_id;
```

File compress.pgbench:

```
\set maxid 3000000
\setrandom from_id 1 :maxid
select x -> 'time' from test_compress where id=:from_id;
```

On PostgreSQL server:

```
# restart is required to clean shared buffers

sudo service postgresql restart
```

On second server (same hardware, same rack):

```
pgbench -h 10.110.0.10 -f nocompress.pgbench -T 600 -P 1 -c 40 -j 12 zson_test
```

On PostgreSQL server:

```
sudo service postgresql restart
```

On second server:

```
pgbench -h 10.110.0.10 -f compress.pgbench -T 600 -P 1 -c 40 -j 12 zson_test
```

Benchmark results:

```
transaction type: nocompress.pgbench
scaling factor: 1
query mode: simple
number of clients: 40
number of threads: 12
duration: 600 s
number of transactions actually processed: 583183
latency average = 41.153 ms
latency stddev = 75.002 ms
tps = 971.802963 (including connections establishing)
tps = 971.810536 (excluding connections establishing)


transaction type: compress.pgbench
scaling factor: 1
query mode: simple
number of clients: 40
number of threads: 12
duration: 600 s
number of transactions actually processed: 651910
latency average = 36.814 ms
latency stddev = 52.750 ms
tps = 1086.386943 (including connections establishing)
tps = 1086.396431 (excluding connections establishing)
```

In this case ZSON gives about 11.8% more TPS.

We can modify compress.pgbench and nocompress.pgbench so only documents with id in between of 1 and 3000 will be requested. It will simulate a case when all data *does* fit into memory. In this case we see 141K TPS (JSONB) vs 134K TPS (ZSON) which is 5% slower.

Compression ratio could be different depending on documents, database schema, number of rows, etc. But in general ZSON compression is much better than build-in PostgreSQL compression (PGLZ):

```
   before   |   after    |      ratio       
------------+------------+------------------
 3961880576 | 1638834176 | 0.41365057440843
(1 row)

   before   |   after    |       ratio       
------------+------------+-------------------
 8058904576 | 4916436992 | 0.610062688500061
(1 row)

   before    |   after    |       ratio       
-------------+------------+-------------------
 14204420096 | 9832841216 | 0.692238130775149
```

Not only disk space is saved. Data loaded to shared buffers is not decompressed. It means that memory is also saved and more data could be accessed without loading it from the disk.
